ABBY: Previously
on Dance Moms...
On top of the pyramid is Brooke.
How dare you?
Our history?
Don't "how dare" me!
When can Kendall have a solo?
When can Kendall be more a part
of what everybody else gets
a part of?
You need to tell your mother
to knock it off.
She's going to get in trouble.
In second place,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY: Second is the
first one to lose.
You did not just
tell me to shut up.
-Yes!
-I cannot stand this bickering.
If I have to lose somebody
on this team, I will do that.
Coming up on Dance Moms...
Each and every dancer
will be doing a solo.
Mom gets to help
out with costumes.
I have costumes she's never
seen on stage or on my daughter
or anybody else.
MAN: Dance Explosion
has been cancelled.
Oh, my God.
Let's see if there's another
competition that we could go to.
ABBY: There's a competition
in Clute, Texas.
-Whatever!
-ABBY: Face it, Jill!
I'll pack my bags
and go home right now!
I'm sick of this (bleep).
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up,
get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls♪
♪Livin' on the dance floor♪
(bright music playing)
ABBY: Ladies! Let's go.
Come on.
-What's with your shoes?
-JILL: I didn't think you'd
mind.
-I'm on my toes.
-The floor is $68,000.
All right.
First I want to talk about last
week.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY:
I must say, I'm a little
disappointed.
We were just outdanced.
It's that energy level.
You can't have a bunch
of slugs out on stage.
This weekend, we will be
attending Dance Explosion
in Secaucus, New Jersey.
You're going to get some
heavy hitters there,
I'm telling you right now.
I'm going to start
with the pyramid.
And first, I have Kendall.
Kendall, I thought
you did a nice job.
You're here because your mother
is way too needy.
Abby, that's ridiculous.
Why isn't she doing a solo?
Why isn't she doing a duet?
-Why doesn't she have a special
part? -And that's needy?
That's inquisitive.
Why doesn't she have a solo?
CHRISTI: Kendall's in the very
bottom spot on the pyramid
and mommy didn't
like that very much.
You're punishing her
for something I did.
Bingo! There you go!
Moving on.
Nia, once again, I
need to see energy,
I need to see excitement.
Next we have Brooke.
You're back, but is
Brooke really back?
BROOKE: I'm really happy to be
back at the Abby Lee Dance
Company,
but I just feel a lot
of pressure on me.
Moving on.
Paige, great job in the tuck.
I just need to see you do that
throughout all of your dancing.
PAIGE: I'm really upset
that I'm not higher on the
pyramid
because I had my own
part in the dance
and I did really good in it.
ABBY: Moving on up the ladder.
Maddie, you danced well.
I expect more from you.
Chloe, same thing.
Great performance on stage.
You just need to learn
to pick up quicker.
And at the top of the pyramid...
Mackenzie.
-(mellow music playing)
-(applause)
I've never been on
the top of the pyramid,
so that's why I'm
really surprised.
ABBY: She won in
Nutley, New Jersey.
She won in Long
Island, New York.
Do you have another win
in you for Secaucus, New Jersey?
I don't know.
We are not going to do
a group routine this week.
Each and every dancer
will be doing a solo.
It's every man for himself.
This is your chance to shine.
Every girl is doing
a solo this week,
but I still need
to do the pyramid.
They need to see how
they rank in my eyes.
And for one time only,
you all get to help
out with the costumes.
Since we're doing seven
completely different solos
this weekend, I don't have time
to worry about costumes.
This is your chance to go
for that Tony, Christi.
You're going to come to me,
show me what you have,
and I can veto it
or I can accept it.
CHRISTI: So Abby's final
little surprise at pyramid
is that the moms are responsible
for the costumes this week.
And there are to be no recycled
costumes and no costumes
that she has seen before.
I don't want to see anything
from any other studios.
I want to see you come up
with something original.
Moms, I'm going to dismiss you
at this time.
Girls, spread apart,
start warming up.
(techno music playing)
I'd like to know how
she's going to get seven solos
done
-in a day.
-MELISSA: In a day.
With solos, it's only you.
There's no one to hide behind,
there's no one to
blame something on.
You either go out
there and you kick ass
or you fall flat on your face.
(techno music playing)
ABBY: Stop!
My solo's an acro-jazz routine
and it's called
Shoulda, Coulda, Woulda.
Now, can you, like,
(yawn sound) yawn?
(yawn sound) Oh, yes!
I don't have time
to make a costume.
-I mean, it's great that...
-I have to make two!
You guys don't
have old costumes?
But your kids have been
dancing for years--
MELLISA:
We're not allowed to use them
again.
You're not allowed to use
any of your costumes...
JILL: I still--I have--
I have tons of costumes.
MELISSA: I know, but you're not
allowed to use any of them, she
said.
-She said none.
-None.
-Trust me, I have costumes she's
never
seen on stage or on my daughter
or anybody else.
-She's not going to know.
-She'll know.
Sneaky Jill is telling us that,
oh, I just might use
one of Kendall's old costumes
because Abby hasn't seen it yet.
Well, that's not
playing by the rules.
You see how it's worked out
for you to speak up
about a special part.
You got booted down
the end of the pyramid.
And now you're at the bottom
of the pyramid.
Now you're gonna go
against the costume thing?
I still--I...
MELISSA: And you came in
with your boots on.
-You know what?
-KELLY: Exactly!
I want to know
why you got to wear your boots
-and I had to take mine off.
-Well, you know what?
-I get tired of her rules.
-KELLY: I could tiptoe in.
And I actually understand
what's going on here.
And I won't let that happen
again, where my actions
-are going to affect my child.
-CHRISTI: Well, that's all
that happens here.
You better go to a new studio.
KELLY: You better keep yourself,
like, in a bubble.
Because anything you do wrong...
She's one of those people who,
every time something happens,
she writes it into a contract.
Why do you think
we're still here?
We--in our contract it says
because our kids want a title,
if we left, that it would cost
us $100,000 in cash
within seven days
or she would blackball us
in the world of dance.
-She's crazy.
-Yeah.
-JILL: Well...
-Flat out crazy.
When you sign up
at the Abbey Lee Dance Company,
she makes you sign a contract.
And the contract basically says
that she owns you for a year.
Yeah, but I don't know.
How much clout does she have?
KELLY: Oh, she's got
a lot of connections.
Does she ever--
I know kids have left here.
Yes, and she's blackballed them
all. She's ruined them.
Okay, and you guys
couldn't have told me this
-before I came in here.
-CHRISTI: You wanted to come.
(jazz music playing)
Hello, my sweet little Apples.
So, here we are again.
Let's go to the PPP,
the perfect positive pyramid,
and let's just take a little
look see at what we've got going
on.
All of us this
week are all equal.
Then we've got that top card
with a big question mark.
Now, let's get serious
about this question mark.
Abby Lee Dance Center
had an open call for some new
talent.
If she can look for new talent,
why can't we?
So, here's what
we're going to do.
We're going to have an open
call, a large crowd,
lots of volume and
it's going to be fun.
(upbeat music playing)
MADDIE: My solo this week
is a Spanish influence
and the song is instrumental.
Well, it has some, like,
little Spanish singers in the
back.
(upbeat music playing)
(shrieks)
You have three days
to get this number clean.
And if one thing a
Spanish dance is,
is clean and precise.
Yes?
Yes.
I'm seeing a big hot mess,
is what I'm saying.
KENDALL: I'm really excited
that I can have my own solo this
week.
SINGER: ♪Fire away, 'cause
I'll take a bullet straight ♪
♪ To the heart for you ♪
♪Fan the flames
'cause I love the burning more ♪
♪Than the broken truth ♪
I know you guys
don't give clout to the pyramid.
-HOLLY: Don't beat yourself up
over it. -JILL: I just feel
ashamed
and humiliated for my daughter.
Kendall deserves to be
at the top of that pyramid.
She did a great job
in the group number this week.
She did a lot better
than some of the other girls
who were ahead of
her in the pyramid.
She deserves to be at the top.
Did you see how everybody
was so happy for Mackenzie?
And when Kendall does make it,
all the kids
are going to be
happy for her too.
But Nia has to be at the top
too, and so does Paige.
CHRISTI: I don't necessarily
think that they have to be...
JILL: And the best should be at
the top. It shouldn't be...
HOLLY: How come whenever
there's Nia or Paige, ever,
their names are ever mentioned
of possibly being elevated up
the pyramid,
that's when your claws come
out...
Jill has a tendency to say snide
remarks about certian students.
Usually it's Nia,
sometimes it's Paige.
And I don't care what Jill says.
It is very evident to me
that she sees Nia as a weak
link.
You weren't even here
all last week, and you show up
-and you start...
-HOLLY: I beg your pardon.
I do have a job outside
of sitting up here.
-We know you work hard!
-HOLLY: Good. Thank you.
Okay--I've said that
a million times.
-I don't know why...
-Not really.
CHRISTI: We know you said it
a million times.
You've said a lot
Do you ever shut up?
Ever?
JILL: All we have to hear about
is I have another child.
-I can't do the costume!
-I have a two-year-old!
-You have teenagers!
-I know! We all know!
-We hear it all the time!
-Shut up, Jill!
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: I don't know
what's gonna happen once I put
out
my offer to these girls.
Come on in!
Come on in, if you're a dancer.
You guys are here to audition
for Team Apple.
(cheering)
I don't feel that
our team is lacking.
We are definitely going to make
ourselves even stronger yet.
(indistinct chatter)
CATHY: She walks in the door
and I immediately recognize her.
She is one of Abby's dancers.
(indistinct chatter)
CATHY: She walks in the door and
I immediately recognize her.
She is one of Abby's dancers.
I mean, they compete.
You'll be able to compete here.
We don't know what's
going to happen.
You don't even know
if she's going to ask you to
stay.
LESLIE: After all of Abby's
abuse, kicking Peyton off the
team
and disrespecting me,
I want to show Abby that we can
find
another studio to compete at.
And the fact that there's space
available at Cathy's Candy
Apples--
icing on the cake.
-I'm excited. Are you excited?
-Yeah.
PEYTON: I want to make my mom
happy, but I'm not sure
how I feel about dancing
for the Candy Apples.
I know it's up to you, but I
really want you
to compete because you know
in your heart you really
-want to compete.
-I know.
-Okay?
-(giggles) Okay.
-All right.
-Strike your best pose right
now.
Hit it.
One, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight.
And one...
She had a great face
and a great body,
and she was just
selling herself.
I'm definitely going to offer
Peyton a spot on the team.
What a coup if we can get her
and she's from Abby Lee.
Kind of a win-win
situation for me.
I get to give Abby
the old little stab
in the back-a-rooski,
and I pick up another dancer
who's got some fine qualities.
-Hey, Peyton.
-Hi!
-CATHY: Awesome job today.
-PEYTON: Thank you.
I want to know if you would
be interested in being on Team
Apples.
Um...
I would definitely
have to think about it.
Are you a spy?
-No! No.
-So what's your hold-back then?
I just miss my friends.
It's a long drive
from where I live.
CATHY: It's mind boggling to me
that here's this kid
it's got an opportunity to come
over to a dance studio that's
nothing
but positive, and I
walk up and I'm like,
you know, what the heck?
What are you guys doing?
Hey!
Come on!
What are you doing?
LELIE: She's just not 100% ready
to just come here and compete.
(sighs) Peyton!
Peyton!
You shouldn't have
wasted my time...
-That's not true.
-Thank you, guys.
-As a dance educator...
...you should not
be saying that.
You should say, it
was my privilege
-to teach your daughter
something. -I think I already...
LESLIE: That should
not be your answer.
-Leslie...
-If you were a positive
educator...
-I think...
-...you should not have taken
that route.
Leslie, honestly, you are way
too much like the Pittsburgh
Dance Moms for me.
So, I loved you...
-You can't handle me?
-...and thank you.
-Okay, Cathy.
-I loved you and thank you.
Thank you, Cathy.
So Candy Apples isn't
the place for us,
but my daughter is a star.
I'm sure of it, and I won't quit
until I find a place
for her to dance.
You know, if I have to go
crawling back to Abby
for Peyton to dance, so be it.
All right, let's grab
our stuff and go.
(mellow music playing)
ABBY: All right, do you see
yourself getting sloppy at the
end?
-WOMAN: No, Holly.
-WOMAN: She looks cute in that.
WOMAN: Put that away.
KELLY: Christi and I always are
doing stuff with our costumes,
but I'm rather nervous
for Melissa and Holly.
-HOLLY: Yes.
-Are you going to show her?
-Because she's gonna say, what?
-I'm gonna veto that.
Me too. Veto.
Honestly, I resent the fact
that I have to make Nia's
costume.
I do not sew.
I am not a designer.
I did not sign up to make my
daughter's costume for dance.
(soft music playing)
Put your arms up, up,
up, down, down, down.
CHRISTI: I think Chloe's
solo this week is going
to be a little bit more
challenging than the other
girls,
simply based on the fact
that she is doing ballet,
and there is a right
and there's a wrong.
There's no gray area.
(dance music playing)
PAIGE: My solo this week is
called Make Some Noise,
and it's, like, a jazzy
acrobatic routine.
And I really like it.
-I have a chicken.
-(laughs)
-Maybe there's a chicken...
-A spider, so far we're batting
1,000.
Hi.
Hello, ladies.
All right, let me
see what you have.
That looks like
somebody else's costume.
Good. Yeah, but that doesn't
look like an Abby Lee Dance
Company costume.
All right, moving on. Jill?
I got like sunburst,
kind of cheery, a little bit
bright.
Sweet little lies.
JILL: Sweet.
-Black, white, or red?
-Sweet like an orange?
-ABBY: No.
-JILL: Black, red, or pink?
Even white.
-Okay.
-Okay?
I'm going to make this a sarong,
put a rose here
and a rose in her hair.
You're going to make
it into a sarong?
Uh-huh.
Kelly taught me how to do it.
Okay.
My tutu is being dyed powder
blue. It's home.
Procrastination station.
It was wet.
Did you want me to bring it
in here and ruin your floor?
ABBY: Why didn't you
just take a picture of it?
Well, I can.
I will when I get home.
And here's the bra
that I am dying the same color.
You're putting your
child in a bra?
CHRISTI: Yeah. It won't look
like a bra when I'm done with
it, I promise.
ABBY: Christi doesn't really
have anything to show me.
She has to get her act together,
and get it real quick.
JILL: Two options for Paige.
I can do this.
That's loud.
-Well, you told me loud.
-ABBY: Right, I know. That's
right.
JILL: And booty shorts,
and probably have like some...
ABBY: If she's going to
wear shorts that short,
the legs better be straight
and the feet better be pointed.
Brooke, go to Brooke.
That'll work.
All right, listen.
Step it up.
You do not want to get an hour
from New York City,
where they can get any piece of
fabric, any color rhinestone,
any applique, any headpiece,
you know, like that.
This is going to
be really rough.
I have seven completely
different solos to create,
plus overseeing the mothers
of this costume idea.
-Oh, my gosh, wait. Hold on.
-Look at this, Paige, look
(indistinct)
You guys are growing.
Isn't that sad?
I like it when you were little.
(phone ringing)
Hello?
Reign Dance Productions,
home of the Abby Lee Dance
Company.
MAN: Hi, I'm trying to get a
hold of Abby Lee Miller.
This is Abby speaking.
Oh, hi there,
this is Rich from Dance
Explosion.
Oh, hi. How are you?
RICH: I'm doing pretty
good, how are you?
-Good, good.
-RICH: Good, good,
um, I have a little bad news,
I'm sorry to let you know...
...that Dance Explosion
has been canceled.
Oh, my God.
(playful music playing)
Oh, hi there,
this is Rich from Dance
Explosion.
Oh, hi. How are you?
RICH: I'm doing pretty
good, how are you?
Good, good.
RICH: Good, good, um, I have a
little bad news, I'm sorry to
let you know...
...that Dance Explosion
has been canceled.
Oh, my God.
We're leaving in
less than 24 hours.
What do you mean the competition
was canceled?
That's just unheard of.
Heard you wanted to see us.
ABBY: Yes, I do.
We have a bit of an issue.
This guy calls and says,
I'm calling from Dance Explosion
to let you know the competition
this weekend has been canceled
because there's not a lot
of people coming.
MELLISA: Hearing that the
competition was canceled is
awful.
I mean, my daughters
really want to dance.
Mackenzie's finally
at the top of the pyramid.
And I'm really upset about it.
So what are our options?
ABBY: We have six solos.
The kids have worked hard,
and they're going to do
the routine somewhere.
KELLY:
Why don't we call around and see
if there's another competition
that we could go to?
HOLLY: We have seven girls
with dances and no place to go,
and Abby has to find a solution
to that situation really fast.
Girls, by all means,
do not slack off.
I don't care
if there's one person against
you
or 1,000 people against you.
You should go out
and do the best performance
that you can.
-Understood?
-ALL: Yes.
ABBY: Yes?
Okay, back to class.
Moms, back to work.
WOMAN: One, two, pivot.
Hey, it's Abby.
We have a bit of a crisis.
Break through.
Yeah, she's out.
Okay.
Five, six, seven, eight.
MAN: Your call has been
forward to an automatic...
Nope. Nope.
Right now I have seven
completed solo routines
and no competition to go to,
so I need to find somewhere
for these kids to go.
We are going to find something
and we are going to go.
There we go.
Now we're talking.
Dance Explosion may
have let me down,
but I'm never going to
let those kids down.
Ladies, we are going to a
competition this weekend.
There's a competition in Clute,
Texas, just outside of
Galveston.
I want the girls to
practice tonight.
Okay.
I'm keeping them here until
their dances are finished and
perfect.
The show must go on.
Yee-haw.
They say don't mess with Texas,
but they Abby Lee Dance Company
is on its way.
Look out, Cowboys, here we come.
(upbeat music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
I have a Maddie, too.
ABBY:
That's where we're going to be
dancing.
The energy is up.
We're excited.
We're walking into the M&A Dance
Competition, and lo and behold,
it's on a gymnasium floor.
Whew! This just threw
us off our game.
Here we go, guys.
Come on, let's go.
Get your stuff set up.
Get your hair up quickly.
WOMAN: Okay.
Obviously this is not
what I had intended.
It's a gymnasium floor,
so you can handle it.
KENDALL: I'm really nervous to
dance on a gymnasium floor
because I've never
danced on one before.
And it's wood,
so I'm scared I might slip.
I hope you were guiding
your mothers when they made
these costumes, yes?
I hope you weren't sleeping.
That costume really has to
sparkle because there's not
stage lights.
You know, there's not lights
hitting that costume to make it
sparkle.
It has to sparkle on its own.
So I'm going to see those before
they go out there, got it?
I hope nobody has to
dance naked, ladies.
SINGER: ♪We all
about, that's right ♪
♪Because it feels good ♪
♪ We all about it♪
♪ Uh-huh ♪
♪You know you should♪
♪Be all about it ♪
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
to the floor the Abby Lee Dance
Company.
(cheering)
SINGER: ♪It's like a dream,
this moment in time♪
♪Now I see a bigger part of me ♪
♪Now the world has
opened up its door♪
♪I'm so much more
than I ever was before♪
♪Who am I? ♪
♪ I see you staring back at me♪
♪I don't have to question why ♪
♪Who am I? ♪
-(applause)
-(cheering)
(dance music playing)
ANNOUNCER: On the floor now,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
This is Miss Mackenzie.
("Shoulda Coulda Woulda"
by Paulina Cerilla playing)
SINGER: ♪Oh, oh, oh, oh♪
♪Yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
♪Whoa♪
I'm used to dancing on a stage,
not this slippery gym floor.
It feels different.
SINGER: ♪ Today I
woke up and realized ♪
♪ That there's boy
I really like ♪
♪And then I thought
I should ask him out♪
♪ To the dance ♪
♪So I put a note in
his locker right ♪
♪When he was playing soccer ♪
♪And then he got it, got it♪
♪Read it and got back to me ♪
-CHRISTI: Oh.
-Probably.
Let me see. That's beautiful.
Did you make that?
Um.
HOLLY: Yes, that's
an old costume.
-You didn't make that.
-No, I wouldn't say it's old.
I didn't say it made it.
But did she wear it
at her other studio?
No.
-You just had that hanging in
your closet? -Well, maybe it
wasn't mine.
Maybe it was someone else's
and they lent it to me.
-ABBY: Hello.
-JILL: Hello.
-ABBY: Jill, let me see her
costume. -Okay. This is the
white costume.
You did not whip
that up last night.
Oh, I never said I
whipped it up last night.
You didn't say go
home and whip up--
I'm not Becky Home Eccy.
I don't whip up costumes.
Where did that
costume come from,
because it's obviously not
pieces of something you pulled
together?
I just wanted used pieces
that you had at home
and come up with something
at the last minute.
JILL: This is what
I came up with.
Well, whose is that, may I ask?
This is Kendall's costume.
You have not seen
her in this costume.
Somebody somewhere
has seen her in it.
It's Kendall's old costume.
It's Kendall's costume now.
It's not one of
her old costumes.
ABBY: I'm trying to teach
the children the lesson
they don't need a
$500 costume to win.
You have something at home,
make it work.
It's not about winning.
It's about what I want
to put my daughter in.
No, it's about what I want
to put your daughter in.
-JILL: A whipped up costume...
-ABBY: Go look at what you have.
Figure it out.
Put it on the kid.
That's looks like
a wedding gown.
That's what I did.
Brooke went out there
in a $30 leotard...
-JILL: And she did great.
-...and danced beautifully.
I can't believe you guys
wouldn't back me up on this.
Because we're following the
rules. You're not.
She's going out there
in the gymnasium in her costume
-that I brought for her.
-ABBY: You look me in the eye.
Has she ever worn
that costume in the competition
or on stage or a show
or a showcase or a performance
or a school gig
or anything else?
Yes, but you haven't
seen her in it.
None of you have seen her in it.
I don't care if somebody else
in the world did.
-What are you doing?
-JILL: I'm done. I'm leaving.
You don't want me here.
I'll just make it easier for
you.
WOMAN: No, we want you here.
We want you to play by the
rules.
JILL: Whatever. Whatever.
I'll pack my bags
and go home right now.
Would that make you
guys all really happy?
-No, that would not make me
happy. -JILL: Because that's
what I'm doing.
I'm sick of this (bleep).
-Done! I'm done.
-ABBY: It's going to be--
It's going to be your daughter
that loses out.
-It's your daughter.
-Good for you.
Jill's throwing shoes
and she's cursing,
and all I'm thinking is you are
so hard to take seriously
wearing that hat.
Yes, you know what?
You're exactly right.
It's supposed to
be about the kids.
Let her wear the
(bleep) costume.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Did she ever wear
that costume before?
Yes, but you haven't seen her in
it. None of you have seen her in
it.
I don't care if somebody else
in the world did.
Whatever.
I'll pack my bags and go home
right now.
Is that--would that make you
guys all really happy?
-ABBY: No, that would not make
me happy. -JILL: Because that's
what I'm doing.
I'm sick of this (bleep).
-I'm done. I'm done.
-ABBY: It's going to be--
It's going to be your daughter
that loses out.
-It's your daughter.
-Good for you.
You know what?
You're exactly right.
It's supposed to
be about the kids.
Let her wear the
(bleep) costume.
ABBY: The mom's assignment was
grab a few pieces together,
take some shorts and a crop-top,
trim them up a little bit,
and make a costume.
She had to go above and beyond
and try to outdo everyone.
Well, you know what?
It backfired on her.
Please do this for Kendall.
She's going to be so
brokenhearted.
I'm not putting her in
a piece of (bleep) costume.
I'm not doing it,
and I'm not going to let them
and Abby win over this.
-I'm not going to let them.
-Don't worry about them
because they did
this to me, okay?
They don't do that
to me anymore.
I'm really shocked that Jill
flipped out at Abby the way she
did,
and I'm sure she's
going to regret it.
I just think that she
was at her wit's end
and she doesn't understand
the way our studio runs.
Where's Abby, girls?
Did you see her?
(tense music playing)
What did she do?
Well, she's not dancing
because I'm not putting her
in a piece of (bleep)
that Abby wants
me to put her in.
At this point, I'm done.
I'm not going to stick around
and let them belittle me
and belittle my daughter
over a stinking costume.
I'm packing my stuff
up and I'm leaving.
They won't have to
deal with me anymore.
Okay, I love you. I love you.
Maddie, go be with her.
Kendall, come here, babe.
Come on.
Get your jacket and
your boots. Let's go.
MELISSA: Maddie, help her.
-It's going to be okay, Kendall.
-Why are you going to make her
leave?
-WOMAN: She's with her friends.
-Why?
Do you really need to ask why?
I think you know why.
We will go to the auditorium
and we will support our friends,
like our friends support us.
Let's go.
We come all this way
and these witches won't get off
my back.
Kendall's not dancing.
End of story. Not having it.
When you're older,
you will understand
that you need to stand up
for what you think is right,
and what they are doing to us
right now is not right.
-I want to dance.
-I know you want to dance,
honey.
We came all this way
for you to dance.
I want you to dance, too,
but it's not happening.
Let's go.
(dramatic music playing)
(upbeat music playing)
All right, how's
everybody doing? Yes?
What's behind you?
Looks like there's blue sticking
out on the sides of you.
-WOMAN: It's a heating pad.
-GIRL: No.
ABBY: A heating pad?
HOLLY: Abby pushes these girls
to be as professional as
possible.
Sometimes when you're an
athlete, you have to perform,
even if there's pain.
And these girls have to learn
how to dance through the pain.
She's having a lot
of back and hip pain.
The hip pain maybe because
you're working really hard at
ballet class.
You're using muscles
that you never used before.
You know, you're starting
to use the inner thigh
instead of grabbing on top.
HOLLY: So I'm just trying to
keep her not freaking out about
it.
I told her she can dance.
She can dance through the pain.
ABBY: There's a big difference
between being sore and being
injured.
Injured you should not dance.
Sore, you have to
work through the pain.
HOLLY: I knew it was coming.
You know, as a mom,
you just have those moments
and you know something's
going to happen.
During rehearsal, Nia's
running her dance.
When you dive walk over,
that right foot has to stay
turned out.
HOLLY: She got a
couple corrections.
I got her flustered.
She couldn't remember
part of her dance,
and I could just see
something's not right.
You'll do well. It's okay.
You're going to do fine.
Sweetie, you'll be okay.
Stay focused and follow
your corrections.
You're going to be fine.
So we are headed to the
gymnasium floor.
We get to the door,
and Nia just has a panic attack.
She breaks down.
I'm like, "Oh, my goodness.
This child is not going
to perform today."
There's no way
I can get her on that stage.
What am I going to do?
Calm down. Calm down.
Nia...
Come here. Come here.
You're a survivor.
She is so worked up,
and all I could think of
was I have to calm her down.
Relax. Relax.
I've never seen you this way.
NIA: Right now I'm very scared
to go on the gymnasium floor
because it's slippery
and I don't want to fall.
HOLLY: Calm yourself down.
It's gonna be okay.
I'm going to go to the door
so I can hurry up and get in,
okay?
She was so overwhelmed
by the prospect of performing,
she had shut down.
She's flipping out.
She had like a panic attack.
GIRL: Is she okay?
Not really, so no
practice for Nia.
She's having a panic attack
for whatever reason.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome to the
floor from Abby Lee Dance
Company, Nia.
(cheers and applause)
("I'm Gonna Survive" playing)
SINGER: ♪ I'm gonna survive ♪
♪ I'm staying alive ♪
♪ I'm gonna hold
my head up high ♪
♪ I'm gonna survive ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm gonna shine ♪
♪ And show the world
that it's my time ♪
HOLLY: Nia looks good out there.
I'm looking at her
and I'm speechless.
I can't believe she's
pulling this off.
SINGER: ♪ You can get high ♪
♪ I'm going to survive ♪
(applause)
NIA: It was really hard
to go out and dance,
but I'm glad I pushed myself.
It was just amazing.
-KENDALL: I want to dance.
-I know you want to dance.
I want you to dance.
KENDALL: Well, am
I dancing or what?
JILL: No, because they won't let
you wear what I brought for you
to wear.
(upbeat music playing)
-Kendall's not dancing.
-HOLLY: She packed up all her
stuff.
-Are you telling me this for
real? -Yeah.
ABBY: I was absolutely appalled
that Kendall was sitting
in the audience behind me
with her mother
while other solos were dancing.
She should have been on deck,
warming up, ready to go.
She wore shorts and a crop-top
the whole time we rehearsed it.
The whole time we
rehearsed the dance.
JILL: We're sitting in the
stands, supporting the other
children.
Abby turns to me and she says,
"Go put Kendall in
the white booty shorts."
Where's the white
shorts and top?
It's in the dressing room.
-ABBY: And she's allowed to use
it? -MELISSA: I told her she
could.
-Absolutely.
-ABBY: Okay. Go. Go.
JILL: So I make a rash decision
to let Kendall wear
the white booty shorts
and the underwear on stage.
(tense music playing)
JILL: Do a front aerial, honey,
right here.
Please, you need
to stay stretched.
ANNOUNCER: From Abby Lee Dance,
welcome Miss Kendall.
(applause)
("Sweet Little Lies" playing)
SINGER: ♪ Fire away ♪
♪ 'Cause I'd take a bullet
straight to the heart for you ♪
♪ Fan all the flames ♪
♪ 'Cause I love the burning
more than the broken truth ♪
♪ So tell me what I wanna hear ♪
KENDALL: I'm happy
that I'm finally dancing,
and I don't care
what the costume looks like.
SINGER: ♪ ...sweet little lies ♪
♪ Sweet little lies over me ♪
♪ Sweet little lies over me... ♪
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: Kendall did a great job
in simple white booty shorts
and a crop-top.
Jill is a drama queen.
I don't think I can
take it anymore.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
to the floor Chloe.
(cheering)
(mellow music playing)
CHRISTI: Chloe looks beautiful,
and her costume looks
professionally made, if I do say
so myself.
(mellow music playing)
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Great job.
(pop music playing)
ANNOUNCER: From Abby
Lee, this is Maddie.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: Here we go.
("Maestro Man" playing)
SINGER: ♪ Maestro
man, you played me ♪
♪ When you play me like a song ♪
♪ Maestro man, you played me ♪
♪ And you play me
all night long ♪
SINGER: ♪ Played me like a... ♪
SINGER: ♪ Maestro
man, you play me ♪
♪ When you play me like a song ♪
(tense music playing)
I got to go.
(dramatic music playing)
ANNOUNCER: From Abby
Lee, this is Maddie.
(dramatic music playing)
MELISSA: When I
saw this gentleman
carrying my daughter off,
my heart sunk to my stomach.
I got to go. I got
to go. Excuse me.
And I jumped off the bleachers
and I ran to her right away,
and I thought she broke a bone.
It was the worst performance
I've ever done.
MELISSA: No, don't
say that. Come here.
It's okay. Honey,
it was beautiful.
Honey, I thought you were
supposed to do that.
No.
I couldn't really move my leg.
It hurt so bad.
I was nervous
if I couldn't dance ever again.
Was Abby mad?
MELISSA: Maddie's so worried
that Abby's going to be mad at
her
because she did so poorly in her
dance, which she didn't.
She said, I danced terrible.
MADDIE: I fell on my hip.
-You fell on your hip?
-Yes.
-Where does it hurt?
-Right here.
-Right here?
-Oh, baby.
I was gonna do a diving front
walk-over and then I went for
it.
Then it didn't work.
WOMAN: Okay. It's okay, honey.
ABBY: Hey.
It's okay.
MELISSA: She said,
Miss Abby's going to be mad at
me.
ABBY: I'm not mad at you,
sweetie, but you started to
dive.
MELISSA: She was going to dive.
-It was too slippery.
-ABBY: I know.
You started to dive,
and then in the middle
you second-guessed yourself
and you went there.
You did a front toss.
MELISSA: Abby came in
and she felt so bad for Maddie.
Any blood?
-No, not even a bruise.
-Okay, good.
We'll get up and walk around
in just a minute.
ABBY: Good.
See, if you had a big butt
and you landed on it, it
wouldn't hurt.
-MELISSA: Like me.
-(Abby chuckles)
Dancers fall and
dancers get hurt.
This may have been
Maddie's first fall,
but it certainly
won't be her last.
Sometimes your ego hurts more
than your injury.
Oh, look at how sweet.
Miss Abby, let me get the door.
(dramatic music playing)
If any other girl fell,
they would not be getting
the same reaction from Abby.
Paige, can you get
your hair done, please?
KELLY: My kid, it would have
been like, "Oh, my God, you
embarrass me.
I haven't had a kid
do this in 50 years.
ANNOUNCER: We should have Brooke
from Kingwood Strutters,
but at this time,
please welcome to the floor
Paige
from Abby Lee Dance Company.
(cheering)
WOMAN: Are you ready?
SINGER: ♪ Stand up,
here come the boys ♪
♪ With their weapons of choice ♪
♪ Here they come
through the halls ♪
♪ You got to make some noise ♪
♪ Walking under the lights,
walls of people, all sides ♪
♪ Can you feel it tonight? ♪
♪ You better make
some noise... ♪
KELLY: I'm watching
Paige do her solo,
and I'm just amazed.
Paige rocked that dance.
SINGER: ♪ Everybody get up ♪
♪ Come on and give
them some love ♪
♪ Raise your voice tonight... ♪
ABBY: Push.
KELLY: Good job.
(cheering)
ANNOUNCER: Great job
Paige form Abby Lee.
That's the best
she's ever danced.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: All right, come here,
Mackenzie. I can fix you.
WOMAN: I don't care.
(cheering)
KELLY: Good job,
baby. You were great.
(indistinct chatter)
That was the best
I saw you dance.
ABBY: Hello.
ALL: Hello.
Woo-hoo!
Yay. Good job.
Paige, how do you think you did?
-Good.
-PAIGE: Good.
I thought you were great.
I thought your energy was up.
I thought you were entertaining.
I thought it was good.
I thought everybody did pretty
well.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: And now
our Junior Solo Awards.
(tense music playing)
ANNOUNCER: In third place...
from Abby Lee Dance
Company, Brooke.
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: In second place,
also from Abby Lee Dance
Company, Chloe.
(cheers and applause)
KELLY: Chloe was
first runner up,
and right then I
knew that Paige won.
ANNOUNCER: And our Junior
Champion from the Abby Lee Dance
Company, Paige.
(cheers and applause)
PAIGE: I'm really
happy that I won,
because normally Miss Abby
doesn't give me a chance to do a
solo
because she doesn't
think I'll win,
but this time I
proved her wrong.
(indistinct chatter)
-My angel!
-(cheering)
Mommy is so proud of you.
I told you you couldn't
have danced any better.
So I'm hoping next
week at pyramid,
it will be a little change.
Paig got a banner!
I don't have much
practive at this, huh?
CHRISTI: Paige, you may be
at the top of the pyramid.
Hey! Congratulations!
Woo-hoow!
I may give all my
girls a hard time.
I yell at Brooke and Paige
like they're my own kids,
but I'm really glad that
Paige had a shining moment
and came out on top.
Girls, you pulled through.
Now everybody here at M&A knows
who Abby Lee Dance Company is.
They didn't even know
who I was before.
Now, because of your talents
and your mother's costuming,
they all know who I am,
and they respect me,
and they were telling me
how wonderful you were all
behaved,
how nice you were and what good
kids, and what nice moms you
had.
(laughter)
ABBY: That every single dancer
got a perfect score
on their costumes.
(cheering)
Yay, Mommy.
WOMAN: We all did?
ABBY: Yup, every
single one of you.
MELISSA: You're all on the top
of the pyramid, the mamas.
ABBY: Yup.
All in all, this was a pretty
successful trip.
We came, we saw,
we kicked some Texas butt.
There's just one more piece of
business I need to take care of.
I am not going to walk out of
here letting Jill think her
behavior was okay.
No way.
Jill has a choice to make.
Either she stays and plays by
the Abby League Dance Company
rules
or she hits the road
and finds another studio.
Jill, I don't want any
more outburst like today.
You have a big decision to make.
Don't take it lightly.
Take it very seriously.
Will Kendall continue to dance?
Will you play on our team?
Are you going to do what I say
when I say it or not?
Well, that's something
Kendall and I will discuss.